<a id="top"></a>
# Project Euler

My solutions to the euler project challenges (https://projecteuler.net) implemented in C++

### Table of Contents<br>
**[Challenge 1 : Multiples of 3 or 5](#multiples-of-3-or-5)**<br>
**[Challenge 2 : Even fibonacci numbers](#even-fibonacci-numbers)**<br>
**[Challenge 3 : Largest prime factor](#largest-prime-factor)**<br>
**[Challenge 4 : Largest palindrome product](#largest-palindrome-product)**<br>
**[Challenge 5 : Smallest multiple](#smallest-multiple)**<br>

## Multiples of 3 or 5

### Description
If we list all the natural numbers below 10 that are multiples of 3 or 5, we get 3, 5, 6 and 9.<br>
The sum of these multiples is 23.<br>

Find the sum of all the multiples of 3 or 5 below 1000.

### Understanding 

The goal here is to compute the sum of all natural numbers below 1000 which are multiples of 3 or 5.
It is only mentionned 3 or 5 so it means that we should avoid numbers which are multiples of both like 15.

So if we compute the sum of numbers *only* multiple of 3 (S3), then those *only* multiple of 5(S5) and finally
the sum of numbers *only* multiple of 15 (S15) and then compute the *S = (S3+S5)-S15*, we should have the
expected value.

### Benchmarking

The benchmarked code using [nanobench](https://github.com/martinus/nanobench) takes 11,789.42 nanoseconds (~11.8 us) to run on my machine.

|               ns/op |                op/s |    err% |          ins/op |         bra/op |   miss% |     total | benchmark
|--------------------:|--------------------:|--------:|----------------:|---------------:|--------:|----------:|:----------
|           11,789.42 |           84,821.80 |    0.1% |       66,266.11 |      13,012.02 |    0.0% |      0.01 | `some double ops`

## Even fibonacci numbers

### Description

Each new term in the Fibonacci sequence is generated by adding the previous two terms. By starting with 1 and 2, the first 10 terms will be:<br>
1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, 34, 55, 89, ...<br>
By considering the terms in the Fibonacci sequence whose values do not exceed four million, find the sum of the even-valued terms.<br>

### Understanding

For this one, we have to compute the Fibonacci numbers which are less than four million,<br>
for each one of them find out if they are even and if it is the case perform a summation.<br>

That's not so difficult, but the difficulty resides in the computation of Fibonacci numbers. <br>
Usually we use recursive function to do that. However, if we have to do that for all numbers, <br>
it will have a huge cost.

The first solution which came to my mind was to have a caching system so that as we are computing <br>
Fibonacci numbers, we may cache them along the way, so that the recursive function could use some <br>
cached values instead of always going to a recursive branch which may have been explored already <br>
for another computation. <br>

### Benchmarking

The benchmarked code using [nanobench](https://github.com/martinus/nanobench) takes 633.86 nanoseconds to run on my machine.

|               ns/op |                op/s |    err% |          ins/op |         bra/op |   miss% |     total | benchmark
|--------------------:|--------------------:|--------:|----------------:|---------------:|--------:|----------:|:----------
|              633.86 |        1,577,633.81 |    0.9% |        5,924.01 |       1,101.00 |    0.2% |      0.01 | `some double ops`

## Largest prime factor

### Description

The prime factors of 13195 are 5, 7, 13 and 29.<br>
What is the largest prime factor of the number 600851475143 ?<br>

### Understanding

This problem was quite interesting. So here the goal was to find out the largest prime number
which divided 600851475143. The first step for me was to find a method to have prime numbers
at my disposal. For that I was reminded about the [Sieve of Eratosthenes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sieve_of_Eratosthenes).

To implement it I decided to use a template class because I was sure that I needed a large Array but how large was the question.
So for me having a configurable Sieve was key. The algorithm to implement it was not so difficult. But the big question
remained how to find out which was the largest prime factor.

I had to go back to the last schoolbook I have today, it was the one I used during my latest high school year.
In here, I was reminded about the prime factor decomposition also called [integer factorization](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Integer_factorization).

This theory is that all natural numbers greater than 2 can be decomposed into product of prime factors.
An example is : 4872 = 2^3 x 3 x 7 x 29.

With this method in mind and my configurable Sieve of Eratosthenes, I had all the tools to implement the solution for the challenge 3.
Taking the number indicated and dividing it by all the prime factor in the order in which they are in the Eratosthenes table allowed
me to obtain the solution in a rather good amount of compilation and execution time.

### Benchmarking 

The benchmarked code using [nanobench](https://github.com/martinus/nanobench) takes 26,334,719.00 nanoseconds (~26.3 ms) to run on my machine .


|               ns/op |                op/s |    err% |          ins/op |         bra/op |   miss% |     total | benchmark
|--------------------:|--------------------:|--------:|----------------:|---------------:|--------:|----------:|:----------
|       26,334,719.00 |               37.97 |    0.1% |  201,156,401.00 |  29,186,404.00 |    0.3% |      0.29 | `some double ops`



## Largest palindrome product

### Description

A palindromic number reads the same both ways. The largest palindrome made from the product of two 2-digit numbers is 9009 = 91 × 99.
Find the largest palindrome made from the product of two 3-digit numbers.

### Understanding

This problem is pretty straightforward:
- first, determine when a number is a palindrome
- second, use a double loop to loop through all numbers of 3 digits to perform all possible products
- third, while going through all the product, check the largest 

The first step is the most difficult because we have to find a mean to determine when a number is a palindrome.
I first try to use an homemade method using division and multiplication to take out the digit on left and right
but if this method worked for a lot of numbers, I encountered one issue regarding the number which contains 0
like 60606. 
Finally I simply used a method to convert the number into a string which helps to quickly check when a number is 
a palindrome.

There are probably rooms for improvement, but as it is it is good enough.

### Benchmarking 

The benchmarked code using [nanobench](https://github.com/martinus/nanobench) takes 31,671,128.00 nanoseconds (~31.7 ms) to run on my machine .

|               ns/op |                op/s |    err% |          ins/op |         bra/op |   miss% |     total | benchmark
|--------------------:|--------------------:|--------:|----------------:|---------------:|--------:|----------:|:----------
|       31,671,128.00 |               31.57 |    0.4% |  299,199,789.00 |  62,391,777.00 |    0.1% |      0.35 | `some double ops`

## Smallest multiple

### Description

2520 is the smallest number that can be divided by each of the numbers from 1 to 10 without any remainder.
What is the smallest positive number that is evenly divisible by all of the numbers from 1 to 20 ?

### Understanding

This problem seems straightforward: go through all numbers and for each one of them check if it is divisible by 1 to 20.
As soon as one is found it is indeed the smallest positive number to do that, hence it is the solution.

However, if we think like that, we have a BIG issue : how far shall we go ? 10000 ? 5,000,000 ? We don't know at all.
So this first approach doesn't work. For me what worked was the analysis of the problem.

First of all this is the list of number our solution shall divide : 
1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 , 9 , 10
11 , 12 , 13 , 14 , 15 , 16 , 17 , 18 , 19 , 20

By carefully analyzing those numbers we can notice that :
4 = 2 x 2
6 = 2 x 3
8 = 2 x 2 x 2
9 = 3 x 3
10 = 2 x 5
12 = 2 x 2 x 3
14 = 2 x 7
16 = 2 x 2 x 2 x 2
18 = 2 x 3 x 3
20 = 2 x 2 x 5

Basically all numbers are product of prime factors (we've seen those in challenge 3).
So it reminds us that our solution has also another property as seen in challenge 3.
Our solution shall be result of product of prime factors.

So if our solution is a product of prime factor and our solution divid all numbers from 1 to 20, then 
our solution shall be the product of all the greatest prime factors seen in our range of numbers.

Let's determine those : 
For 2 we have 2⁴
For 3 we have 3²
For 5 we have 5
For 7 we have 7
For 11 we have 11
For 13 we have 13
For 17 we have 17
For 19 we have 19

So our solution S, shall be S = 2⁴ x 3² x 5 x 7 x 11 x 13 x 17 x 19.

Well we have determined the solution theoritically, now the rest of the task is to implement our solution 
in our program.
To do that, we will reuse our EratosthenesTable class to get the prime numbers.
And for each prime numbers in the range [1 ; 20]; we have to check what is the greatest prime factor
existing in the range [1; 20]. Once we have done that for all prime numbers in [1; 20];
all we have to do is to multiply those numbers to get our solution.

### Benchmarking

The benchmarked code using [nanobench](https://github.com/martinus/nanobench) takes 790.16 nanoseconds to run on my machine .

|               ns/op |                op/s |    err% |          ins/op |         bra/op |   miss% |     total | benchmark
|--------------------:|--------------------:|--------:|----------------:|---------------:|--------:|----------:|:----------
|              790.16 |        1,265,561.71 |    0.4% |        5,908.01 |       1,091.00 |    0.0% |      0.01 | `some double ops`

## <Problem Title>

### Description
<Insert Description Here>
### Understanding
<Insert Understanding Here>
