# Highly divisible triangular number

## Description

The sequence of triangle numbers is generated by adding the natural numbers. 
So the 7th triangle number would be 1 + 2 + 3 + 4 + 5 + 6 + 7 = 28.
The first ten terms would be:

1, 3, 6, 10, 15, 21, 28, 36, 45, 55, ...

Let us list the factors of the first seven triangle numbers:

     1: 1
     3: 1,3
     6: 1,2,3,6
    10: 1,2,5,10
    15: 1,3,5,15
    21: 1,3,7,21
    28: 1,2,4,7,14,28

We can see that 28 is the first triangle number to have over five divisors.
What is the value of the first triangle number to have over five hundred divisors?

## Understanding

Here the problem seems simple at first but the biggest challenge is to divise an algorithm
fast enough to perform the computation in a reasonable time.

First thing is to find out how to compute Triangular Numbers.
The Second step is to find out the number of divisor for a given number (Triangle Numbers or not).

### Triangle Numbers

A detailed description of Triangular Numbers is given on its dedicated [Wikipedia Page](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Triangular_number).
I think the definition is pretty clear. But how to compute a Triangular Number ?

The Wikipedia Page gives us one of the best hint. For a given number **n**, the corresponding Triangular Number is obtained
by computing:

$$ S = n*(n+1)/2 $$

In my mind, I wanted to prove this. There is a proof by induction indicated on the Wikipedia page, but I find the following
easier to understand:

$$ s = n + (n-1) + (n-2) + ... + 3 + 2 + 1 $$

We can also write **s** in the following way : 

$$ s = 1 + 2 + 3 + ... + (n-2) + (n-1) + n $$

If we perform the sum of the two expressions, we can have : 

$$ 2*s = n + 1 + (n-1) + 2 + (n-2) + 3 + ... + 3 + (n-2) + 2 + (n-1) + 1 + n $$
$$ 2*s = (n+1) + (n-1+2) + (n-2+3) + ... + (3+n-2) + (2+n-1) + (1+n) $$
$$ 2*s = (n+1) + (n+1) + (n+1) + ... + (n+1) + (n+1) + (n+1) $$

and because we have **n** times **(n+1)**, we can write:

$$ 2*s = n*(n+1) $$

So finally:

$$ s = n*(n+1)/2 $$

So we have the formula to compute the value of any Triangular Number.

### Number of divisor

The easiest (and longest) way to find the number of divisor for a given number **N** is to
go through all number from 1 to N, check if the number divides **N**, if so count it.

But this will take a lot of time for huge/big numbers.

However, we can benefit from a property used in a previous challenge.

For a given number **n**, if we can write:

$$ n = a * b $$

Then it means that either **a** or **b** is less or equal to the square root of n.

Using this, we shrink the result of the for loop by not going all the way up to n but only going up to square root of n.

But by doing so, we also need to understand two important details.

#### Adding 2 to the result

Because we will not go all the way up to **n**, we need to exclude this case in the loop but take it into account
in the final result.

And because:

$$ n = 1 * n $$

We know that 1 and n are two divisors of n, which means that whatever the result of the for loop we will do will be,
we will still need to add 2 to it to have the real number of divisors.

#### Counting two each time

Because we have :

$$ n = a * b $$

And one of them is less or equal to the square root of n; as soon as we find this one, we know that the other is 
greater than the square root of n.

This means that as soon as we have one we can in fact count two. So our loop will have something like that :

```c++
...
        if(n%index==0)
        {
            evenDivisorCount+=2; // if one divides, the other too so 1+1
        }
...
```

With those two elements in mind, we can write our algorithm confidently and sure to obtain the result we want.

## Benchmarking


